# 2.5.3.2 Leader vs Worker nodes

The reason for the leader vs worker split is to allow as many computers as possible to be able to contribute to the blockchain whilst ensuring they are still rewarded for their work.

The leader/worker dynamic helps this as the requirements for becoming a leader node are about as high as typical for becoming a block contributor for other chains, whilst the requirements for becoming a worker node are much lower.

### Requirements for each type of node.

#### The approximate requirements for a leader node will be the following:

1. An internet connection with low enough latency to support quick computations and data transfers.
2. A computer/server powerful enough to handle large quantities of data quickly.
3. A public DNS/IP address to allow worker nodes to connect to.
4. Two open ports, one for http and one for web-socket connections, the http port for communicating to other leader nodes and the web-socket port for talking to worker nodes in realtime.
5. Able to run the node software 24/7 so as to ensure that worker nodes that choose to work for this leader node can always mine whenever they want.

#### The approximate requirements for becoming a worker node:

1. An internet connection for connecting to a leader node.
2. A computer that supports any form of the node software.

### Summary

A leader node is one that operates at all times, allows worker nodes to connect to the network through itself and has a publicly accessible http and web-socket connection but will be rewarded for these requirements with a greater share of block rewards.

A worker node is one that can operate whenever it wants and will contribute by helping a leader node do any calculations they need doing, then will be rewarded with a lower share of block rewards.
