# 1.4.3 The Webportal

## Summary

The webportal will be how users of all types will first interact with the blockchain and it's components, it will be used to introduce users to the project, give some basic uses of the blockchain and give further information to those who want it.

Since the webportal has quite a wide range of possibilities, I will be building it in two stages:

* Stage 1. Primary Sections
* Stage 2. Advanced Sections

In this case the primary sections will be developed early on in the projects development and are essential, with the secondary sections being important but not being truly essential to the project's use and mostly reliant upon other parts of the project having reached a specific stage of development.

##

## Stage 1. Primary Sections

Initially the following pages can be built into the webportal that are not reliant on the node software or the protocol being at any stage of development and are primarily information based pages.

### Home Page

This will be the page users first see when they open the site and will contain a very brief summary of the project along with some method of navigation to get to other parts of the project/site quickly.

### 'Learn More' page

This page should be built to explain some of the more technical side of the project in more detail such that technical users who are interested in learning about the inner details of the project and it's structuring can do so.

### Other Navigation

There should also be some form of link to the source code as well as any other relevant external documents so that users can find anything that is relevant to the project from this webportal.

##

## Stage 2. Advanced Sections

Then as the project progresses and reaches a point at which transactions can be completed throught the use of the node software the sections in this stage should begin to be implemented.

### Wallet Page

This will allow users to generate or load their wallets to see the contents and what they are storing without having to launch a node and check manually. This will also help to reduce the entry point of the project for non-technical users since it is much easier to login to an online wallet than use a dedicated software one.

### Marketplace Page

This will allow the purchase and sale of data, currency and other blockchain items to other users on the network. This is important since initially there will be no third party tools or marketplaces for this blockchain and hence in order to make it useful and demostrate it's capabilities there should be a very basic example of a marketplace that could then be elaborated by other developers if they saw it as interesting enough to warrant doing so.
