# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Transactions

### The Structure of Transactions and Digital Signatures

Transactions on this blockchain will abide by a few rules, rules which form the system that allow for digital signatures to take place and therefore transactions on the whole.

These rules are the following:

* Wallets (and therefore users) are identified by their public keys
* The transactions themselves are encrypted using a wallet's private key and can be decrypted using that wallet's public key. This is effectively the opposite of standard encryption, as anyone can read this data, because only the owner can write a transaction involving themselves, however with typical encryption, anyone can write a message but only the owner can read them.
* Transactions should include a timestamp of when they were approved, if the transaction is included on a block that is timestamped to outside of a set time frame of the transaction's time stamp then the transaction should be counted as null and void.
* Transactions should then also obviously include where the coins/proof of ownership should be sent to, and what is being sent.

Following these rules gives us an idea of what each transaction should look like:

| Sender's public key | Transaction                | Recipient's public key | Timestamp                    | Sender Encrypted Copy |
| ------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------------------- |
| b94d27b9            | {type: coin, quantity: 50} | j45n63m3               | Thu Mar 17 2022 19:06:50 GMT | 821a643d5ebf18ee9     |

In JSON format that would look something like the following:

```
{
    Sender-Key: "b94d27b9",
    Transaction:
        [{type: coin, quantity: 50}],
    Recipient-Key: "j45n63m3",
    Timestamp: "Thu Mar 17 2022 19:06:50 GMT",
    Sender-Encrypted: "821a643d5ebf18ee9"
}    
```

It's important to mention that the Sender-Encrypted hash of the data does not include itself, otherwise that would create a recursion error and would be impossible to destruct. Instead the Sender-Encrypted hash is a hash of everything except itself in a separate JSON object than the one in the blockchain.

Therefore, in this scenario the sender would be hashing and encrypting the following:

```
{
    Sender-Key: "b94d27b9",
    Transaction:
        [{type: coin, quantity: 50}],
    Recipient-Key: "j45n63m3",
    Timestamp: "Thu Mar 17 2022 19:06:50 GMT",
}
```

This is very important to bear in mind when writing the node mining software as if the whole json transaction is validated it will never validate successfully, and instead the section of the transaction referenced above is the part that should be validated according to the Sender-encrypted hash.

### Types of Transactions and Valid Data

#### There will initially be five main types of data that can be sent over a transaction:

* Coin - this represents any cryptocurrency, the currency itself will be dictated within the rest of the data detailing that transaction.
* Certificate - this represents a certificate of ownership and is what allows [Nfts](../terminology.md#nfts) to be supported on this blockchain, the important thing to know about these is that they can hold multiple owners depending on which part of the certificate you are looking at, and they should only be allowed to be edited or "sent" by the wallet that owns that part of the certificate.
* Custom - this is just any json data, and is assumed to be valid as long as it can be read and is owned by the wallet who is trying to send it.
* TrustElo - this is what is sent from a leader node to a worker node after a block has been added to the blockchain, it can be positive or negative, but has a fixed value of +1 for a valid block and -1 for an invalid block, it is up to the leader node to add this to transactions and that's why they have fixed values, to prevent a leader node from being able to destroy/boost the TrustElo of each node in it's pool if a bad actor gained control of it.
* Creation - this is what is used to "create" something on the blockchain, this can be any&#x20;

## Limitations

### A large enough testing base
