# 2.2.12 Cycle 12 - Sending messages across the network

## Design

### Objectives

Since the project is getting near the end of the time period allowed for development and the validation/transaction part of the blockchain doesn't exist outside of the theoretical space yet, but the majority communication layer is nearly finished I think it would be a good idea to get general communication working such that by the end of the allowed period of development the project exists in a form that is somewhat usable.

This form would effectively end up being a decentralised messaging service, which although is not quite the full blockchain that I was aiming for in the first place, still utilises a lot of the same networking and logic - due to effectively being a demo of the decentralised communication layer.

To do this, I will need to introduce a few new features that will build upon what I have created in previous cycles:

* [ ] Generating message objects that state who created the object and provides a signature to prove it.
* [ ] Sending these messages to all references stored on the node.
* [ ] Receiving, validating, logging and forwarding these messages.

With these features the messages being sent will be very similar to the transactions that were initially hypothesised in the analysis of this project, however instead of being sent in bulk during block creation, will instead be sent individually whenever nodes feel like it.

This will then allow for the adaption of these messages into blocks in a future cycle if there is enough time to continue on this path, meaning that in any form this is not a detour of the theorised final project, just a way to create a demo that uses everything that has been created so far.

### Usability Features

* Feature 1
* Feature 2

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

Objective 1 solution:

```
```

Objective 2 solution:

```
```

## Development

An addition that I ended up creating for this cycle that wasn't originally planned but was very useful to test and use the functionality created was a basic html page that was hosted on the http server to allow a user to send and view messages in an easy to use, simple web page.

Paired with all the new broadcasting functionality that allows messages to be shared across the network and the development for this cycle ends up being a lot more substantial than the pseudocode would make it appear, hence the outcome section simply includes two relevant files in their entirety as they were both created during this cycle and both contain relevant code.

The first being the broadcast file that shows all the code written to send messages across the network and forward those that have been received and checked to be valid.

Then the second being the user sided dashboard that helps to provide a nice way to view and contribute to these messages.

### Outcome

Objective 1

```
code
```

Objective 2

```
code
```

### Challenges

Challenges faced in either/both objectives

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               |                       |           |
| 2    |              |               |                       |           |
| 3    |              |               |                       |           |

### Evidence

(Images of tests running/results)
