# 2.2.13 Cycle 13 - Introducing a sql database

## Design

New required packages:

* Docker
* Postgres
* libpq

### Objectives

Now that you can send messages between nodes, it's time to introduce a way of storing these messages and the best way in which I can think of that to be done is by creating a local database such that the node can store and load data onto that database and use it as it's memory. The benefit of introducing a database for this reason also means that the references that were introduced in [Cycle 11 - Remembering Nodes](needs-code-2.2.10-cycle-10-remembering-nodes.md) can be moved to the database for faster and better storage.

The way I'm going to go to do this is through the use of docker, which is a service for generating containerised "virtual machines" that \*should\* run identically no matter the hardware. This means all the program has to do is tell docker to generate a postgreSQL database image and as long as the user has docker installed, it should then be able to be connect and use this just like it would any other database.

PostgreSQL was chosen because V - the language the node is written in - supports it and I have used it in other projects before so should be able to work with it easily.

* [ ] Generate a postgreSQL docker container and connect to it upon startup
* [ ] Build the postgreSQL table with required fields.
* [ ] Refactor references to use the database rather than the json file used at the moment.
* [ ] &#x20;Save messages to the database and only forward them through the network if the node hasn't seen it before.

### Usability Features

* Feature 1
* Feature 2

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

Objective 1 solution:

```
```

Objective 2 solution:

```
```

## Development

Most of the development for this cycle was just setup, to get everything I need for this project up and running and building out the structure of the codebase in order to make the actual programming as smooth as possible.

### Outcome

Objective 1

```
code
```

Objective 2

```
code
```

### Challenges

Challenges faced in either/both objectives

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               |                       |           |
| 2    |              |               |                       |           |
| 3    |              |               |                       |           |

### Evidence

(Images of tests running/results)
