# 2.2.3 Cycle 3

* Implemented configuration handler
* Fixed issues with inputs
* Added compiling for Windows
* Tried to add compiling for Linux, too many issues
* Didn't fix issues with compiling for Linux, but users can clone the repo and compile it themselves.

## Design

### Objectives

For this cycle the main objective is to turn the node software into something more aligned with what a user would actually be able to use, as although it will mainly be computer oriented people using this part of the project having it easy to understand is still a big benefit.

* [ ] Implement a configuration handler and setup tool.
* [ ] Add compilation for other operating systems apart from macOS

### Usability Features

#### Configuration handler&#x20;

For the configuration handler it will originally start of very simply and will probably be somewhat a pain to use, but the hope is that by laying out a ground framework now that contains the console interface that will be used to interact with the configuration handler to be in plain, easy to understand English. This will give users the best chance at being able to run through the configuration setup with as little friction as possible.

* Plain, easy to read English text based interface.
* Allows user to respond in a variety of ways (yes: "yes", "y","confirm","approve", etc).

#### Multi-OS compilation

For the compilation, although I would like to make it so that the user just selects which OS they are using on the website and download only the correct version, that would take up too much time at this point of the project and can be added later on, therefore for now the user will just download all available versions of the program and run the one that their system can handler.

* Make it clear which version of the program the user should run based on their system using a brief summary.
* Not crash the computer if the user runs the wrong version.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use                                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| user\_config  | to store the user's current configuration settings for various parts of the system. (which port to use for the server, etc) |
| config\_path  | the default place for user configurations to be stored by the software for loading/saving configs.                          |

## Pseudocode

### Configuration Handler

The handler will be built with three main functions:

* `get_config` meant for collecting the configuration for use by other parts of the program.
* `new_config` meant for generating a new configuration for the user if they don't already have one.
* `save_config` meant for saving the current version of the configuration to the file.

#### Getting the configuration.

`get_config` will allow any part of the software to load the newest version of the configuration, ideally this will be from memory but will likely just be from the file to start with. It will look something like the following:

<pre><code><strong>// Psuedocode - get configuration function
</strong><strong>
</strong>CONST config_path = "./monochain/node.config" // the key variable described earlier.
<strong>
</strong><strong>FUNCTION get_config():
</strong> 	// load the config from the defualt file location and decode with json.
	user_config = file.read(config_path, "json")

	// check if the config loaded properly
	IF user_config DOES NOT EXIST:
		// if it hasn't, let the user know and start generating a new one.
		OUTPUT "No config detected, or error occoured."
		user_config = new_config()
	END IF
	
	// if generating a new config failed aswell, then exit with code 100
	IF !user_config.loaded 
		OUTPUT "Failed to create a new configuration file.\nExiting..."
		exit(100)
	ENDIF

	// if we make it to this part of the code then the config is ok
	OUTPUT "\nConfig Loaded..."
	return user_config
END FUNCTION</code></pre>

Generating a new config

```
// Psuedocode - create a new configuration

FUNCTION create_configuration():
	// create the config object
	config = {
		// let's the program know the config loaded successfully
		loaded: true	
		// generate the port to use in the function below	
		port: ask_for_port()
	}
	
	// save the config object to a file
	save_config(config)
	return config
END FUNCTION


FUNCTION ask_for_port():
	// ask the user for the port 
	OUTPUT "What port would you like to run your node on?"
	port = INPUT

	// check the port is valid
	IF port > 65535 || port < 1:
		// if it's not valid, tell the user and ask for the port again
		OUTPUT "That port does not exist! You might want to enter a number between 1 and 65535."
		return ask_for_port()
	END IF

	// return the port
	return port
END FUNCTION
```

## Development

Most of the development for this cycle was just setup, to get everything I need for this project up and running and building out the structure of the codebase in order to make the actual programming as smooth as possible.

### Outcome

Objective 1

```
code
```

Objective 2

```
code
```

### Challenges

Challenges faced in either/both objectives

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               |                       |           |
| 2    |              |               |                       |           |
| 3    |              |               |                       |           |

### Evidence

(Images of tests running/results)
