# 2.2.8 Cycle 8 - Node Refactor and Protocol Updates

## Basics (remove once filled out):

* Conceptualised voting and how system rules are going to work.
  * Allows block defined rules to be changed diplomatically and removes control from any individual.
* Transaction speed (cause of planning out voting in more detail)
  * This is needed so as to promote fast block development without creating blocks with very few transactions, this way is the best of both worlds, it promotes somewhere in between.
* Node stuff:
  * Generated a small error regarding files not being openable, this is because I switched to using `./monochain/file` instead of just using `./file`
    * Error due to vlang's file writer not being able to open files in directories that don't exist yet, so the directories must be created first during the file opening cycle.
  * Massive error: "SIGSEGV"
    * This is a massive downside of the V language and makes the program very difficult to debug.
    * Very difficult to debug as there is no line number for this kind of error, the error just exists somewhere in the code and it may not even be the code, it could be the compiler.
    * Issue was due to a type declaration loop.
      * In cryptography/main.v the struct Keys was defined as Keys {KeysType} and the type KeysType was defined as Keys
  *   Switched keys to separate module.

      * This allows signing data to be a public function, whilst the keys remain private so as not to be accessible by other functions.
      * It also allows any module that requires data to be signed to just load the keys and sign it.
      * Downside - May result in the keys file being loaded to memory multiple times and very regularly, may be solved through v's garbage collection but I'm not entirely sure.&#x20;



## Design

### Objectives

In order for the blocks to be properly propagated amongst all the nodes in the network, blocks cannot just be created thousands of times per second and have it hoped that all the nodes receive them&#x20;

* [ ] Objective 1
* [ ] Objective 2
* [ ] Objective 3

### Usability Features

* Feature 1
* Feature 2

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

Objective 1 solution:

```
```

Objective 2 solution:

```
```

## Development

Most of the development for this cycle was just setup, to get everything I need for this project up and running and building out the structure of the codebase in order to make the actual programming as smooth as possible.

### Outcome

Objective 1

```
code
```

Objective 2

```
code
```

### Challenges

Challenges faced in either/both objectives

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               |                       |           |
| 2    |              |               |                       |           |
| 3    |              |               |                       |           |

### Evidence

(Images of tests running/results)
