# 2.2.2 Cycle 2

## Design

### Objectives

If I want to let users contribute using the node software and continue down the javascript & node.js route they will have to download the software, download node, then all of the libraries I used for the project, which is far from ideal.

Therefore I'm going to be switching to a different programming language and a different distribution method. The conditions I need this programming language to meet are the following:

* Can be compiled with libraries to limit the amount of setup end users have to do.
* Can be compiled to arm and x86 on macOS, Linux and Windows.
* Ideally has type safety
* Runs Fast
* Has networking capabilities
* Has modern features

The best language I could find for those specifications was V [(aka Vlang)](https://vlang.io/) which is a type based language based upon C.

There are both upsides and downsides to using Vlang instead of typescript, the largest upsides are how much faster than typescript it is and that it can be compiled to binary so that end users won't have to worry about downloading additional packages/files. The downsides come more in the form of general development, because Vlang is such a new programming language&#x20;

#### Rewriting what I've done so far.

Now that I've decided to switch from typescript to Vlang I will first need to rewrite everything I've done in this new language. However since this isn't actually that much, I will also be setting up the api server in this cycle which will allow you to go to the ip address that the node is running on and http get it to receive the message "Hello world".

#### Summary of the objectives for this cycle

* [ ] Create a V program that runs.
* [ ] Compile the V program to a macOS executable
* [ ] Configure the build files to compile the V program and put it in the public folder within the web server project so it can be downloaded.
* [ ] Setup the api using the default Vlang library: Vweb
* [ ] Allow the index to be requested using http and respond with "Hello World"

## Development

### Setting up Vlang

Setting up the V compiler is actually pretty basic, all that is needed is to clone the git repo ([https://github.com/vlang/v](https://github.com/vlang/v)), run the make file and then follow the instructions given. I then also setup the symlink, which is what allows the compiler to run just by typing "v" in the terminal rather than having to run the path to the executable.

This can be verified to have being setup properly using "v --version" in the terminal, see tests.

### Writing the Vlang program

In order to keep the code clean and easy to understand, I'm going to split the different parts of the node software into different files and then different modules to group those files together. In this dev cycle I will be setting up the first two modules, main and server.

{% hint style="info" %}
I accidentally forgot to add this cycle's V files to the git repository until a later cycle as I started using vsCode as the program editor for the node instead of WebStorm, which doesn't automatically add new program files to git like I'm used to.&#x20;

This means you can see a lot of the same code in the git commit where I realised this was an issue [(here) ](https://github.com/AlfieRan/A-Level-Project/commit/bc45df98e7b01aa4b8780d922f6d2780a470c913#diff-c4ce8106d97e90a58d09de01bc04153e9d76c4b73e921644b84235ac5df3783a)but the code mentioned in this page had been modified to include parts of cycle 3 and 4 by then.
{% endhint %}

### The Main module

This will be the part of the node software which handles and operates all of the other modules, all the major data in this program should flow through the main module. Initially it will need to:

* [x] Import the server module
* [x] output to the console to let the user know the node is running
* [x] launch the server

This will look something like:

```
// Pseudocode
module main
import server

procedure main():
    output "A Welcome Message"
    port = an interger value between 0 and 25565
    server.start(port)
end procedure
```

After converting this Pseudocode to V code we get the following:

```
// Vlang Code - packages/node/src/main.v

module main // declares which module this part of the code is
import server // imports the server module referenced above

fn main() {
	// output to the terminal to let the user know it's running,
	println('***** MonoChain Mining Software *****')
	port := 8001
	
	// then start the webserver
	server.start(port)
}
```

### The Server module

* [ ] Have a start function which takes a port number as an input and launches a web server on that port.
* [ ] Setup a "Hello World" function at the index of the server ("/")

```
// Pseudocode
module server
import webServer    // import a http server module

function start(port):    // starts running the webserver
    webServer.run()
    
function index_fn():    // returns 'Hello World!' to the domain it runs on
    return "Hello World!"    

webServer.page("/", index_fn)    // assign the index_fn to "/" on the server.

```

## Testing

### Setup and configuration tests

| Test | Instructions                                   | Expected                                                                             | Actual Result     | Passed/Failed |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------- | ------------- |
|      | run "v --version" in the terminal              | Output of "V" then some version number and a hash of that update.                    | "V 0.2.4 01fdd5d" | Passed        |
|      | run "yarn start" in the node package's source. | The node software to be compiled and ran.                                            | As expected       | Passed        |
|      | run "yarn build" in the node package's source  | The node software to be compiled, zipped and put into the webportal's public folder. | As expected       | Passed        |

### Program tests

| Test | Instructions | Expected | Actual Result |
| ---- | ------------ | -------- | ------------- |
|      |              |          |               |
|      |              |          |               |
|      |              |          |               |

### Download tests

| Test | Instructions | Expected | Actual Result |
| ---- | ------------ | -------- | ------------- |
|      |              |          |               |
|      |              |          |               |
|      |              |          |               |
